README.md, before:

# Hello World SoF App in React

This application was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app).
You can learn more in the [Create React App documentation](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/getting-started).
To learn React, check out the [React documentation](https://reactjs.org/).
The app can be launched via the [SMART<sup>&reg;</sup> app launch framework](http://hl7.org/fhir/smart-app-launch/index.html).


## Other Underlying Technologies

### Clinical Quality Language (CQL)
[CQL](https://cql.hl7.org/) is a domain-specific programming language focused on clinical quality applications, including CDS as well as electronic clinical quality measures (eCQMs). Logical expressions written in CQL are human-readable but can also be compiled to a machine-friendly format to facilitate implementation. This application executes CQL logic to provide patient customized behavior. Machine-friendly versions of the CQL are embedded in this app; For more information about CQL see [here](https://cql.hl7.org/); For more information about how to compile CQL code into machine-readable format, see [here](https://github.com/cqframework/clinical_quality_language).


### CQL Execution Engine
All CQL calculations are executed using the [CQL Execution Engine](https://github.com/cqframework/cql-execution), an open source library that implements the CQL standard.

### Web Workers
All CQL calculations are executed within the context of a [Web Worker](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Using_web_workers), thereby offloading them to a separate thread. This greatly improves the responsiveness of the application.

### React Material UI
[Material UI](https://mui.com/) is a library of React UI components that implements Google's Material Design.

## Usage
A number of options are available for local usage to support testing with synthetic data.

### Setup
This project manages dependencies using the [NPM package manager](https://www.npmjs.com/) in the [Node environment](https://nodejs.dev/) (Node version <= 16 is recommended for this application). Make sure to have both NPM and Node installed before proceeding. The dependencies for the application can be installed locally by typing `npm install` at the command line. A local version of the app can be launched by typing `npm start` at the command line and the page will reload when you make changes. A copy suitable for distribution can be built using the `npm run build` command (see the `build` folder).

### Docker
To start services via docker, first copy the default configuration files and modify as necessary:

    # docker-compose service/project configuration
    cp .env.default .env

    # React App configuration
    cp frontend.env.default frontend.env

To start all services, run the below command:

    docker-compose up

### Download Value Sets from VSAC
The value set content used by the CQL is cached in a file named valueset-db.json, which has been checked into this project in an empty state. In order for the CDS to operate as intended, implementers must populate valueset-db.json with the value sets which have been published on the [Value Set Authority Center (VSAC)](https://vsac.nlm.nih.gov/). In order to access VSAC, you must sign up for a [UMLS Terminology Services account](https://uts.nlm.nih.gov//license.html).

Once a UMLS Terminology Services account has been obtained, the valueset-db.json file can be updated by running the following:

1. Run `node src/util/updateValueSetDB.js UMLS_API_KEY` _(replacing UMLS\_API\_KEY with your actual UMLS API key)_

To get you UMLS API Key:

1. Sign into your UMLS account at [https://uts.nlm.nih.gov/uts.html](https://uts.nlm.nih.gov/uts.html)
2. Click 'My Profile' in the orange banner at the top of the screen
3. Your API key should be listed below your username in the table
4. If no API key is listed:
   1. Click ‘Edit Profile’
   2. Select the ‘Generate new API Key’ checkbox
   3. Click ‘Save Profile’
   4. Your new API key should now be listed.

### Configuration
Parameters for the app are stored in [environmental variables](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/environ.7.html) that are stored in an `.env` file (run `cp default.env .env` at command line to create the .env file) and it allows the environment variables thus specified to be read by the application at build time. The [dotenv package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv) is used to store the default variable values, which can be overwritten by defining a more specific env (e.g., `.env.local`) file or by setting the variables in the deployment system. For more information, see the [React documentation](https://create-react-app.dev/docs/adding-custom-environment-variables/).

#### Parameters
| Parameter | Description | Allowed Values |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `REACT_APP_FHIR_RESOURCES` | Define the FHIR resource(s) to load for the patient | `Condition,Procedure,Observation,Questionnaire,QuestionnaireResponse` |
| `REACT_APP_FHIR_OBSERVATION_CATEGORIES` | Define what categor(ies) of FHIR observations to load for the patient | `social-history,vital-signs,imaging,laboratory,procedure,survey,exam,therapy,activity` |
| `REACT_APP_AUTH_SCOPES` | For allowing the app to specify the delegation of a specific set of access rights via launch context. see [App Launch: Scopes and Launch Context](https://build.fhir.org/ig/HL7/smart-app-launch/scopes-and-launch-context.html) | `profile roles email patient/*.read openid fhirUser patient/QuestionnaireResponse.write` |

### Using with Public SMART Sandbox
A public [SMART<sup>&reg;</sup> App Launcher](https://launch.smarthealthit.org/index.html) is available for sandbox tesing of SMART on FHIR apps with synthetic data.

### Launch for SMART App Launcher

#### Launching from a local instance
1. Make sure Node and NPM package manager have been installed
2. Run `npm install` to install all dependencies (this step can be skipped subsequently unless dependencies have changed)
3. Run `npm start` to install dependencies
4. Navigate to the public SMART<sup>&reg;</sup> App Launcher and choose the "Provider EHR Launch" Launch Type. **Uncheck** "Simulate launch within the EHR user interface".  Leave all other options unselected. Paste the launch URL, e.g. `http://localhost:3000/launch.html` into the "App Launch URL" box at the bottom of the SMART<sup>&reg;</sup> App Launcher page. Select "Launch App!" which will bring up a patient selector widget before the app is launched.

Commit message:

add example of a button that returns to REACT_APP_DASHBOARD_URL if defined

README.md, after:

# Hello World SoF App in React

This application was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app).
You can learn more in the [Create React App documentation](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/getting-started).
To learn React, check out the [React documentation](https://reactjs.org/).
The app can be launched via the [SMART<sup>&reg;</sup> app launch framework](http://hl7.org/fhir/smart-app-launch/index.html).


## Other Underlying Technologies

### Clinical Quality Language (CQL)
[CQL](https://cql.hl7.org/) is a domain-specific programming language focused on clinical quality applications, including CDS as well as electronic clinical quality measures (eCQMs). Logical expressions written in CQL are human-readable but can also be compiled to a machine-friendly format to facilitate implementation. This application executes CQL logic to provide patient customized behavior. Machine-friendly versions of the CQL are embedded in this app; For more information about CQL see [here](https://cql.hl7.org/); For more information about how to compile CQL code into machine-readable format, see [here](https://github.com/cqframework/clinical_quality_language).


### CQL Execution Engine
All CQL calculations are executed using the [CQL Execution Engine](https://github.com/cqframework/cql-execution), an open source library that implements the CQL standard.

### Web Workers
All CQL calculations are executed within the context of a [Web Worker](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Using_web_workers), thereby offloading them to a separate thread. This greatly improves the responsiveness of the application.

### React Material UI
[Material UI](https://mui.com/) is a library of React UI components that implements Google's Material Design.

## Usage
A number of options are available for local usage to support testing with synthetic data.

### Setup
This project manages dependencies using the [NPM package manager](https://www.npmjs.com/) in the [Node environment](https://nodejs.dev/) (Node version <= 16 is recommended for this application). Make sure to have both NPM and Node installed before proceeding. The dependencies for the application can be installed locally by typing `npm install` at the command line. A local version of the app can be launched by typing `npm start` at the command line and the page will reload when you make changes. A copy suitable for distribution can be built using the `npm run build` command (see the `build` folder).

### Docker
To start services via docker, first copy the default configuration files and modify as necessary:

    # docker-compose service/project configuration
    cp .env.default .env

    # React App configuration
    cp frontend.env.default frontend.env

To start all services, run the below command:

    docker-compose up

### Download Value Sets from VSAC
The value set content used by the CQL is cached in a file named valueset-db.json, which has been checked into this project in an empty state. In order for the CDS to operate as intended, implementers must populate valueset-db.json with the value sets which have been published on the [Value Set Authority Center (VSAC)](https://vsac.nlm.nih.gov/). In order to access VSAC, you must sign up for a [UMLS Terminology Services account](https://uts.nlm.nih.gov//license.html).

Once a UMLS Terminology Services account has been obtained, the valueset-db.json file can be updated by running the following:

1. Run `node src/util/updateValueSetDB.js UMLS_API_KEY` _(replacing UMLS\_API\_KEY with your actual UMLS API key)_

To get you UMLS API Key:

1. Sign into your UMLS account at [https://uts.nlm.nih.gov/uts.html](https://uts.nlm.nih.gov/uts.html)
2. Click 'My Profile' in the orange banner at the top of the screen
3. Your API key should be listed below your username in the table
4. If no API key is listed:
   1. Click ‘Edit Profile’
   2. Select the ‘Generate new API Key’ checkbox
   3. Click ‘Save Profile’
   4. Your new API key should now be listed.

### Configuration
Parameters for the app are stored in [environmental variables](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/environ.7.html) that are stored in an `.env` file (run `cp default.env .env` at command line to create the .env file) and it allows the environment variables thus specified to be read by the application at build time. The [dotenv package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv) is used to store the default variable values, which can be overwritten by defining a more specific env (e.g., `.env.local`) file or by setting the variables in the deployment system. For more information, see the [React documentation](https://create-react-app.dev/docs/adding-custom-environment-variables/).

#### Parameters
| Parameter | Description | Allowed Values |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `REACT_APP_FHIR_RESOURCES` | Define the FHIR resource(s) to load for the patient | `Condition,Procedure,Observation,Questionnaire,QuestionnaireResponse` |
| `REACT_APP_FHIR_OBSERVATION_CATEGORIES` | Define what categor(ies) of FHIR observations to load for the patient | `social-history,vital-signs,imaging,laboratory,procedure,survey,exam,therapy,activity` |
| `REACT_APP_AUTH_SCOPES` | For allowing the app to specify the delegation of a specific set of access rights via launch context. see [App Launch: Scopes and Launch Context](https://build.fhir.org/ig/HL7/smart-app-launch/scopes-and-launch-context.html) | `profile roles email patient/*.read openid fhirUser patient/QuestionnaireResponse.write` |
| `REACT_APP_DASHBOARD_URL` | Define the (f)EMR URL to which the app can return to | example: https://dashboard.acc.dev.cosri.cirg.washington.edu

### Using with Public SMART Sandbox
A public [SMART<sup>&reg;</sup> App Launcher](https://launch.smarthealthit.org/index.html) is available for sandbox tesing of SMART on FHIR apps with synthetic data.

### Launch for SMART App Launcher

#### Launching from a local instance
1. Make sure Node and NPM package manager have been installed
2. Run `npm install` to install all dependencies (this step can be skipped subsequently unless dependencies have changed)
3. Run `npm start` to install dependencies
4. Navigate to the public SMART<sup>&reg;</sup> App Launcher and choose the "Provider EHR Launch" Launch Type. **Uncheck** "Simulate launch within the EHR user interface".  Leave all other options unselected. Paste the launch URL, e.g. `http://localhost:3000/launch.html` into the "App Launch URL" box at the bottom of the SMART<sup>&reg;</sup> App Launcher page. Select "Launch App!" which will bring up a patient selector widget before the app is launched.
